README.md, before:

# ![otel-photo](./docs/img/opentelemetry-logo-nav.png) OpenTelemetry Demo

[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-@cncf/otel/demo-brightgreen.svg?logo=slack)](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03B4CWV4DA)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo?color=blueviolet)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/releases)
[![Commits](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/latest?color=ff69b4&include_prereleases)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/otel/demo)](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/demo)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg?color=red)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Under Construction

This repo is a work in progress. If you'd like to help, check out our
[contributing guidance](#contributing).

## Getting Started

- [Docker](./docs/docker_deployment.md)
- [Kubernetes](./docs/kubernetes_deployment.md)

## Documentation

- [Demo Screenshots](./docs/demo_screenshots.md)
- [Feature Flags](./docs/feature_flags.md)
- [Manual Span Attributes](./docs/manual_span_attributes.md)
- [Metric Feature Coverage by Service](./docs/metric_service_features.md)
- [Requirements](./docs/requirements/README.md)
- [Service Roles](./docs/service_table.md)
- [Trace Feature Coverage by Service](./docs/trace_service_features.md)

## Architecture

**Online Boutique** is composed of microservices written in different programming
languages that talk to each other over gRPC and HTTP; and a load generator which
uses [Locust](https://locust.io/) to fake user traffic.

```mermaid
graph TD

subgraph Service Diagram
adservice(Ad Service):::java
cache[(Cache<br/>&#40redis&#41)]
cartservice(Cart Service):::dotnet
checkoutservice(Checkout Service):::golang
currencyservice(Currency Service):::cpp
emailservice(Email Service):::ruby
frontend(Frontend):::javascript
loadgenerator([Load Generator]):::python
paymentservice(Payment Service):::javascript
productcatalogservice(Product Catalog Service):::golang
quoteservice(Quote Service):::php
recommendationservice(Recommendation Service):::python
shippingservice(Shipping Service):::rust
featureflagservice(Feature Flag Service):::erlang
featureflagstore[(Feature Flag Store<br/>&#40PostgreSQL DB&#41)]

Internet -->|HTTP| frontend
loadgenerator -->|HTTP| frontend

checkoutservice --->|gRPC| cartservice --> cache
checkoutservice --->|gRPC| productcatalogservice
checkoutservice --->|gRPC| currencyservice
checkoutservice --->|HTTP| emailservice
checkoutservice --->|gRPC| paymentservice
checkoutservice -->|gRPC| shippingservice

frontend -->|gRPC| adservice
frontend -->|gRPC| cartservice
frontend -->|gRPC| productcatalogservice
frontend -->|gRPC| checkoutservice
frontend -->|gRPC| currencyservice
frontend -->|gRPC| recommendationservice -->|gRPC| productcatalogservice
frontend -->|gRPC| shippingservice -->|HTTP| quoteservice

productcatalogservice -->|gRPC| featureflagservice

shippingservice -->|gRPC| featureflagservice

featureflagservice --> featureflagstore

end
classDef java fill:#b07219,color:white;
classDef dotnet fill:#178600,color:white;
classDef golang fill:#00add8,color:black;
classDef cpp fill:#f34b7d,color:white;
classDef ruby fill:#701516,color:white;
classDef python fill:#3572A5,color:white;
classDef javascript fill:#f1e05a,color:black;
classDef rust fill:#dea584,color:black;
classDef erlang fill:#b83998,color:white;
classDef php fill:#4f5d95,color:white;
```

```mermaid
graph TD
subgraph Service Legend
  javasvc(Java):::java
  dotnetsvc(.NET):::dotnet
  golangsvc(Go):::golang
  cppsvc(C++):::cpp
  rubysvc(Ruby):::ruby
  pythonsvc(Python):::python
  javascriptsvc(JavaScript):::javascript
  rustsvc(Rust):::rust
  erlangsvc(Erlang/Elixir):::erlang
  phpsvc(PHP):::php
end

classDef java fill:#b07219,color:white;
classDef dotnet fill:#178600,color:white;
classDef golang fill:#00add8,color:black;
classDef cpp fill:#f34b7d,color:white;
classDef ruby fill:#701516,color:white;
classDef python fill:#3572A5,color:white;
classDef javascript fill:#f1e05a,color:black;
classDef rust fill:#dea584,color:black;
classDef erlang fill:#b83998,color:white;
classDef php fill:#4f5d95,color:white;
```

Find the **Protocol Buffer Definitions** in the `/pb/` directory.

## Features

- **[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)**: the app is designed to run on
  Kubernetes (both locally , as well as on the cloud).
- **[Docker](https://docs.docker.com)**: this forked sample can also be executed
  only with Docker.
- **[gRPC](https://grpc.io)**: microservices use a high volume of gRPC calls to
  communicate to each other.
- **[OpenTelemetry Traces](https://opentelemetry.io)**: all services are
  instrumented using OpenTelemetry available instrumentation libraries.
- **[OpenTelemetry
  Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started)**: all
  services are instrumented and sending the generated traces to the
  OpenTelemetry Collector via gRPC. The received traces are then exported to the
  logs and to Jaeger.
- **[Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io)**: all generated traces are being
  sent to Jaeger.
- **Synthetic Load Generation**: the application demo comes with a background
  job that creates realistic usage patterns on the website using
  [Locust](https://locust.io/) load generator.
- **[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)**: all generated metrics are being
  sent to Prometheus.
- **[Grafana](https://grafana.com/)**: all metric dashboards are stored in Grafana.

## Demos featuring Online Boutique

- [Datadog](https://github.com/DataDog/opentelemetry-demo-webstore)
- [Honeycomb.io](https://github.com/honeycombio/opentelemetry-demo-webstore)
- [Lightstep](https://github.com/lightstep/opentelemetry-demo-webstore)
- [New Relic](https://github.com/newrelic-forks/opentelemetry-demo)

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

We meet weekly Monday's at 8:15 AM PT. The meeting is subject to change
depending on contributors' availability. Check the [OpenTelemetry community
calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=google.com_b79e3e90j7bbsa2n2p5an5lf60%40group.calendar.google.com)
for specific dates and Zoom meeting links.

Meeting notes are available as a public [Google
doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16f-JOjKzLgWxULRxY8TmpM_FjlI1sthvKurnqFz9x98/edit).
For edit access, get in touch on
[Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03B4CWV4DA).

[Maintainers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/community-membership.md#maintainer)
([@open-telemetry/demo-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/teams/demo-maintainers)):

- [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker), Lightstep
- [Carter Socha](https://github.com/cartersocha), Microsoft
- [Morgan McLean](https://github.com/mtwo), Splunk
- [Pierre Tessier](https://github.com/puckpuck), Honeycomb

[Approvers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/community-membership.md#approver)
([@open-telemetry/demo-approvers](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/teams/demo-approvers)):

- [Juliano Costa](https://github.com/julianocosta89), Dynatrace
- [Michael Maxwell](https://github.com/mic-max), Microsoft
- [Mikko Viitanen](https://github.com/mviitane), Dynatrace
- [Penghan Wang](https://github.com/wph95), AppDynamics
- [Reiley Yang](https://github.com/reyang), Microsoft
- [Ziqi Zhao](https://github.com/fatsheep9146), Alibaba

### Thanks to all the people who have contributed

[![contributors](https://contributors-img.web.app/image?repo=open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/graphs/contributors)

Commit message:

🐛 Fixing tests configuration (#306)
* fixing tests configuration

* adding custom docker file for FE tests

* improving tests

* multiple fixes and readme entry

* multiple fixes and readme entry

* fixing E2E tests

* skipping flaky tests

* adding the quote service as a dependency for the integration tests

README.md, after:

# ![otel-photo](./docs/img/opentelemetry-logo-nav.png) OpenTelemetry Demo

[![Slack](https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-@cncf/otel/demo-brightgreen.svg?logo=slack)](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03B4CWV4DA)
[![Version](https://img.shields.io/github/v/release/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo?color=blueviolet)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/releases)
[![Commits](https://img.shields.io/github/commits-since/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/latest?color=ff69b4&include_prereleases)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/graphs/commit-activity)
[![Downloads](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/otel/demo)](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/demo)
[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-Apache_2.0-blue.svg?color=red)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/blob/main/LICENSE)

## Under Construction

This repo is a work in progress. If you'd like to help, check out our
[contributing guidance](#contributing).

## Getting Started

- [Docker](./docs/docker_deployment.md)
- [Kubernetes](./docs/kubernetes_deployment.md)

## Documentation

- [Demo Screenshots](./docs/demo_screenshots.md)
- [Feature Flags](./docs/feature_flags.md)
- [Manual Span Attributes](./docs/manual_span_attributes.md)
- [Metric Feature Coverage by Service](./docs/metric_service_features.md)
- [Requirements](./docs/requirements/README.md)
- [Service Roles](./docs/service_table.md)
- [Trace Feature Coverage by Service](./docs/trace_service_features.md)

## Architecture

**Online Boutique** is composed of microservices written in different programming
languages that talk to each other over gRPC and HTTP; and a load generator which
uses [Locust](https://locust.io/) to fake user traffic.

```mermaid
graph TD

subgraph Service Diagram
adservice(Ad Service):::java
cache[(Cache<br/>&#40redis&#41)]
cartservice(Cart Service):::dotnet
checkoutservice(Checkout Service):::golang
currencyservice(Currency Service):::cpp
emailservice(Email Service):::ruby
frontend(Frontend):::javascript
loadgenerator([Load Generator]):::python
paymentservice(Payment Service):::javascript
productcatalogservice(Product Catalog Service):::golang
quoteservice(Quote Service):::php
recommendationservice(Recommendation Service):::python
shippingservice(Shipping Service):::rust
featureflagservice(Feature Flag Service):::erlang
featureflagstore[(Feature Flag Store<br/>&#40PostgreSQL DB&#41)]

Internet -->|HTTP| frontend
loadgenerator -->|HTTP| frontend

checkoutservice --->|gRPC| cartservice --> cache
checkoutservice --->|gRPC| productcatalogservice
checkoutservice --->|gRPC| currencyservice
checkoutservice --->|HTTP| emailservice
checkoutservice --->|gRPC| paymentservice
checkoutservice -->|gRPC| shippingservice

frontend -->|gRPC| adservice
frontend -->|gRPC| cartservice
frontend -->|gRPC| productcatalogservice
frontend -->|gRPC| checkoutservice
frontend -->|gRPC| currencyservice
frontend -->|gRPC| recommendationservice -->|gRPC| productcatalogservice
frontend -->|gRPC| shippingservice -->|HTTP| quoteservice

productcatalogservice -->|gRPC| featureflagservice

shippingservice -->|gRPC| featureflagservice

featureflagservice --> featureflagstore

end
classDef java fill:#b07219,color:white;
classDef dotnet fill:#178600,color:white;
classDef golang fill:#00add8,color:black;
classDef cpp fill:#f34b7d,color:white;
classDef ruby fill:#701516,color:white;
classDef python fill:#3572A5,color:white;
classDef javascript fill:#f1e05a,color:black;
classDef rust fill:#dea584,color:black;
classDef erlang fill:#b83998,color:white;
classDef php fill:#4f5d95,color:white;
```

```mermaid
graph TD
subgraph Service Legend
  javasvc(Java):::java
  dotnetsvc(.NET):::dotnet
  golangsvc(Go):::golang
  cppsvc(C++):::cpp
  rubysvc(Ruby):::ruby
  pythonsvc(Python):::python
  javascriptsvc(JavaScript):::javascript
  rustsvc(Rust):::rust
  erlangsvc(Erlang/Elixir):::erlang
  phpsvc(PHP):::php
end

classDef java fill:#b07219,color:white;
classDef dotnet fill:#178600,color:white;
classDef golang fill:#00add8,color:black;
classDef cpp fill:#f34b7d,color:white;
classDef ruby fill:#701516,color:white;
classDef python fill:#3572A5,color:white;
classDef javascript fill:#f1e05a,color:black;
classDef rust fill:#dea584,color:black;
classDef erlang fill:#b83998,color:white;
classDef php fill:#4f5d95,color:white;
```

Find the **Protocol Buffer Definitions** in the `/pb/` directory.

## Features

- **[Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io)**: the app is designed to run on
  Kubernetes (both locally , as well as on the cloud).
- **[Docker](https://docs.docker.com)**: this forked sample can also be executed
  only with Docker.
- **[gRPC](https://grpc.io)**: microservices use a high volume of gRPC calls to
  communicate to each other.
- **[OpenTelemetry Traces](https://opentelemetry.io)**: all services are
  instrumented using OpenTelemetry available instrumentation libraries.
- **[OpenTelemetry
  Collector](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/getting-started)**: all
  services are instrumented and sending the generated traces to the
  OpenTelemetry Collector via gRPC. The received traces are then exported to the
  logs and to Jaeger.
- **[Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io)**: all generated traces are being
  sent to Jaeger.
- **Synthetic Load Generation**: the application demo comes with a background
  job that creates realistic usage patterns on the website using
  [Locust](https://locust.io/) load generator.
- **[Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)**: all generated metrics are being
  sent to Prometheus.
- **[Grafana](https://grafana.com/)**: all metric dashboards are stored in Grafana.

## Tests

Currently, the repository includes E2E tests for both the frontend and backend services.
For the Frontend we are using [Cypress](https://www.cypress.io/) execute the
different flows in the webstore.
While the backend services use [AVA](https://avajs.dev) as the main testing framework.

To run the test you can simple run `make run-tests` at the root directory.

In case you need to run a specific suite of tests you can execute
`docker compose run frontendTests` for the frontend tests or
`docker compose run integrationTests` for the backend tests.

## Demos featuring Online Boutique

- [Datadog](https://github.com/DataDog/opentelemetry-demo-webstore)
- [Honeycomb.io](https://github.com/honeycombio/opentelemetry-demo-webstore)
- [Lightstep](https://github.com/lightstep/opentelemetry-demo-webstore)
- [New Relic](https://github.com/newrelic-forks/opentelemetry-demo)

## Contributing

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md)

We meet weekly Monday's at 8:15 AM PT. The meeting is subject to change
depending on contributors' availability. Check the [OpenTelemetry community
calendar](https://calendar.google.com/calendar/embed?src=google.com_b79e3e90j7bbsa2n2p5an5lf60%40group.calendar.google.com)
for specific dates and Zoom meeting links.

Meeting notes are available as a public [Google
doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/16f-JOjKzLgWxULRxY8TmpM_FjlI1sthvKurnqFz9x98/edit).
For edit access, get in touch on
[Slack](https://cloud-native.slack.com/archives/C03B4CWV4DA).

[Maintainers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/community-membership.md#maintainer)
([@open-telemetry/demo-maintainers](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/teams/demo-maintainers)):

- [Austin Parker](https://github.com/austinlparker), Lightstep
- [Carter Socha](https://github.com/cartersocha), Microsoft
- [Morgan McLean](https://github.com/mtwo), Splunk
- [Pierre Tessier](https://github.com/puckpuck), Honeycomb

[Approvers](https://github.com/open-telemetry/community/blob/main/community-membership.md#approver)
([@open-telemetry/demo-approvers](https://github.com/orgs/open-telemetry/teams/demo-approvers)):

- [Juliano Costa](https://github.com/julianocosta89), Dynatrace
- [Michael Maxwell](https://github.com/mic-max), Microsoft
- [Mikko Viitanen](https://github.com/mviitane), Dynatrace
- [Penghan Wang](https://github.com/wph95), AppDynamics
- [Reiley Yang](https://github.com/reyang), Microsoft
- [Ziqi Zhao](https://github.com/fatsheep9146), Alibaba

### Thanks to all the people who have contributed

[![contributors](https://contributors-img.web.app/image?repo=open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo)](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-demo/graphs/contributors)
